1. Time you failed something?

I received a technical interview from a major tech company as a machine learning engineer intern. Before the interview, I was confident in my abilities, and I also spent a considerable amount of time going over some major machine learning concepts, such as the basics of neural networks and other statistical learning methods. However, during the interview, I was quickly stumped by the questions asked by the engineer who was interviewing me. She went a lot deeper into the concepts, asking about different evaluation metrics of the machine learning methods, their respective pros and cons, and when to use certain metrics based on the data we have. Reflecting on this process, I realized that I had a lot to learn about machine learning. I have taken steps to increase my knowledge about the machine learning algorithms I have used in the past; for each algorithm I use or learn, I first develop an intuition on how the algorithm "learns" about the data. I then look into specific use cases and try to determine a rough idea on the situations where this algorithm would be useful as well as situations where this algorithm will fail. I then learn about a few metrics that are commonly used to evaluate the model, and also study their respective pros and cons. Finally, I combine everything and develop an understanding of the entire model building process, from picking models based on data, selecting features, cross validation, evaluation, etc.

2. Why Shure?

As someone who loves listening to music, It is hard for me to find a pair of satisfactory headphones. I am always in search of an audio system than can provide better bass, clearer sounds, and an overall better experience. Shure immediately popped up in my mind as an audio company that has a stellar reputation for providing industry-leading audio electronics. I love the fact that Shure, while being an industry leader, is still innovating and finding new ways to improve the products.

As a data scientist, however, I am really intrigued by the different ways data can be used in a non-traditional setting. For instance, in tech companies like Google or Amazon, it would be reasonable to expect that these companies get huge amounts of data and thus need many data scientists to make sense of them. However, most people won't expect a company like Shure that makes audio products to have the same demand for data scientists.

That being said, the amount of available data that Shure has and the endless number of insights I can drawfrom it excites me. I want to analyze data from microphones, headphones, and studio equipment to continuously improve the purity and tone and really make an impact in Shure's product development process. To realize this goal, I have developed extensive experience in data science, including a project where my team and I analyzed point of sales data from Dillard's stores. During this project, I interacted extensively with SQL, Python, and data science techniques, which gave me the experience neccessary to integrate quickly into Shure's data science team and work on impactful projects from the start.

3. Why Data Science / how did you land in DS?

Recent news has been a bombardment of the words big data, AI, and machine learning. We’ve already seen the great value that data holds. Robust recommendation systems built and trained using user data is helping retail companies rake in billions of dollars per year, and the amount of data is only going to increase rapidly as our world becomes increasingly digital. However, to the untrained eye, this data is nothing more than a bunch of random and meaningless numbers. Thus, in this day and age, people who are able to translate data into plain English are critical to many different industries. With analytics, I can turn raw data, something that is seems so unassuming, into information that can influence pivotal decisions. Working on projects like developing use cases for REFIT (Northwestern's platform that deploys machine learning models to IoT data) and exercise form tracker for my startup has showed me the impact that data science has. We will be able to predict when a Divvy bike station needs redocking of bikes, and we can determine if someone is doing an exercise correctly. Having said that, being able to create impact from a mumbo jumbo of data excites me, and I cant wait to see what the future holds for data science.

4. What strengths will you bring to this role?

I believe that I can bring my expertise in working with the latest data science technologies and machine learning methods to the team. My most recent project involves taking several million lines of time series data generated by Divvy bikes as well as external data and building a model to predict the capacity of each bike station at given time intervals. The project also involves simulating data streaming and deploying the model and data pipeline on AWS as well as Northwestern University's own platform REFIT. 

Another project I am working on is my startup, FitX. The company seeks to combine AI with fitness, and I am building a exercise form tracker using Python and its various deep learninglibraries, such as openCV, pytorch, OpenPose, and so on. We're currently in the steps of migrating our code base to AWS,and in the future we'll likely use an SQL database to store training data of people exercising. The program tracks body keypoints such as joints and limbs in either live video or recorded videos, and checks if the exercise is performed within tolerance. The tolerances are first calculated based on an array of training videos, then are continously updated basedon the individual user's body anatomy. I also built a feedback system that gives recommendations on how to improve the exercise based onframe by frame performance.

During these projects, I have worked extensively with python and state-of-the-art machine learning libraries to generate visualizations, conduct analysis, and build and deploy models. Moreover, working on my startup has allowed me to dig deep into the concepts and intricacies of computer vision and applying it to suit my needs. Finally, working on a team in these two major projects have enabled me to become a more effective team player and communicator.

5. What do you hope to gain from this experience?

I'm really interested in applying machine learning techniques to non-tech fields such as audio electronics, so out of this internship I want to deepen my experience in prototyping and realizing novel use cases of machine learning and AI. I enjoy being a part of new technologies and trying out innovative solutions, and throughout this internship I want to use those technologies and solutions to help build actionable solutions. I also want to learn what it is like using technologies like Python, TensorFlow, OpenCV, SQL in a business setting, where not all the data is necessarily clean enough to draw insights from. Finally, I want to experience working with an entire team of data scientists to challenge and deepen my data science knowledge and learn the "tricks of the trade" so to speak.

6. What were your projects? what difficulties you faced during that?

The project that I am most proud of is actually something I am working on right now. It is my startup, FitX. The company seeks to combine AI with fitness, and I am building a exercise form tracker using Python and its various deep learning libraries, such as openCV, pytorch, OpenPose, and so on. We're currently in the steps of migrating our code base to AWS,and in the future we'll likely use an SQL database to store training data of people exercising. The program tracks body keypoints such as joints and limbs in either live video or recorded videos, and checks if the exercise is performed within tolerance. The tolerances are first calculated based on an array of training videos, then are continously updated based on the individual user's body anatomy. I also built a feedback system that gives recommendations on how to improve the exercise based on frame by frame performance. The biggest difficulty in this project was sourcing good data. Although there are many videos of people training in the gym, many of them vary in angle, lighting, quality, and direction. It was very difficult to find videos of people filming straight on with at least decent lighting or video quality. This significantly slowed the tolerance range computation, and my team and I are trying to find an algorithm that would not need the tolerance range to detect exercise correctness.

Another project that I'm working on right now is developing use cases for Northwestern University's REFIT, which is a platform for applying machine learning technologies to an IoT system to generate insights, predictions, etc. I am working on a use case that involves Divvy bikes. We obtained 7 years worth of data from Divvy bikes, including the ride time, starting location of the ride, station location, etc. The current goal is to create a model to predict the capacity of each bike station at given time intervals. The main challenge related to this project is once again related to the data. The dataset is much larger in size than any dataset that I have worked with, and I have limited experience working on time series data. Also the project requires us to use new technologies like Scala and Apache Cassandra, which only contributes to the already steep learning curve. Despite this, I believe this is a very interesting project and I am up for the challenge.

7. Troubleshooting process?

Define problem -> collect relevant info about the problem (why did it occur? when? what was I doing when it occured?) -> analyze info -> propose solution -> test -> if not fixed, collect more info and re-analyze.

8. Creative approach to solve a problem?

In a team project where we analyze point of sales data from Dillard's stores, the dataset was very large -- more than 161 million rows. It simply would not fit in any of our computers' memory. Thus, in order to do any analysis at all, I proposed the solution to sample 10,000 rows of data to first develop the data cleaning and feature engineering code. Then, we can apply it to the whole dataset by using my program's dedicated servers. This way, we are not clogging up server bandwidth by developing code on the entire dataset, and we are also using time efficiently and not waiting for the code to run every time we want to test something. By using my solution, we were able to develop clean code without headache and having our computers crashing and meet the weekly milestones three days earlier than scheduled.

9. Project most proud of?

The project that I am most proud of is actually something I am working on right now. It is my startup, FitX. The company seeks to combine AI with fitness, and I am building a exercise form tracker using Python and its various deep learninglibraries, such as openCV, pytorch, OpenPose, and so on. We're currently in the steps of migrating our code base to AWS,and in the future we'll likely use an SQL database to store training data of people exercising. The program tracks body keypoints such as joints and limbs in either live video or recorded videos, and checks if the exercise is performed within tolerance. The tolerances are first calculated based on an array of training videos, then are continously updated basedon the individual user's body anatomy. I also built a feedback system that gives recommendations on how to improve the exercise based onframe by frame performance.

This project really stands out to me because it is basically my brain child. As an avid bodybuilder and aspiring data scientist, this project is the perfect marriage of my top 2 interests. I also think that once this project is completed,I will have a program that may seem simple on the outside, but can revolutionze the gym for years to come. Coaches can usethis to augment their instruction with their atheletes, and casual gym goers can use this program to ensure theyare peforming every exercise correctly and avoiding injury.

10. Tech / tool stack
My favorite tool to date is vscode. I mainly use Python and its data science libraries as well as Jupyter notebook in VScode, but Ialso like to use RStudio for statistical modeling or data analysis from time to time. I am currently using a Linux machine as mymain computer; it works better as a development environment. I also use DB Browser for SQLite and PgAdmin PostgreSQL for my database needs.I also love github because it keeps everything very organized.

11. Colleagues / customers find faults?
I think having someone finding fault in my project is a good thing. Obviously it would be better if there were nofaults, but I believe this is a great learning experience. The first thing I would do is to listen to my coworker'sor customer's complaint in my project. I will try my best to understand their perspective first before explaining myrationale for what I did in the project. I believe all of these discussion should be conducted in a civil and non-confrontationalmanner; in my team work experience, the project will carry on much more smoothly if the discussion is civil. However, thisis not to say that I would blindly accept any correction to my work. Depending on who I am reporting to, either I or my superior would have the final say in my project.
